Professor: And thus we reach the second of our three pillars of operating sys- tems: concurrency.
Student: I thought there were four pillars...?
Professor: Nope, that was in an older version of the book.
Student: Umm... OK. So what is concurrency, oh wonderful professor?
Professor: Well, imagine we have a peach —
Student: (interrupting) Peaches again! What is it with you and peaches?
Professor: Ever read T.S. Eliot? The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock, “Do I dare to eat a peach”, and all that fun stuff?
Student: Oh yes! In English class in high school. Great stuff! I really liked the part where —
Professor: (interrupting) This has nothing to do with that — I just like peaches. Anyhow, imagine there are a lot of peaches on a table, and a lot of people who wish to eat them. Let’s say we did it this way: each eater first identifies a peach visually, and then tries to grab it and eat it. What is wrong with this approach?
Student: Hmmm... seems like you might see a peach that somebody else also sees. If they get there first, when you reach out, no peach for you!
Professor: Exactly! So what should we do about it?
Student: Well, probably develop a better way of going about this. Maybe form a
line, and when you get to the front, grab a peach and get on with it. Professor: Good! But what’s wrong with your approach? Student: Sheesh, do I have to do all the work?
Professor: Yes.
Student: OK, let me think. Well, we used to have many people grabbing for peaches all at once, which is faster. But in my way, we just go one at a time, which is correct, but quite a bit slower. The best kind of approach would be fast and correct, probably.
